breaking Point Let's go straight to Al
Han Mahmud in Dar alala for the very
latest and hany talk us through what
more we know about this attack on Gaza
City yes well this is not the first time
we've seen this deliberate attack on
public facilities employees in the past
we this kind of attacks were more
concentrated on organization
International Organization employes or
local organization such as the uh the
food Aid organization across the Gia but
this time the target seems to be a
facility that provides the services and
it tries as much as it could with
whatever in the in its capacity to do uh
to clean up the roads from the rubbles
and open road that have being blocked by
the pile of rubbles because of the
intense bombing campaign the four people
pronounced killed at the side our
municipality employees that were killed
inside this public facility that is
managed and operated by the Gaza
municipality in addition to one person
who was passing by the area the area
where this public facility is located is
densely populated with people who have
been pushed from where they used to live
in eastern part of Gaza from the density
populated neighborhoods sh zun and and
all the way to Western Gaza at this
particularly at the center of Gaza City
being displaced internally due to the
ongoing artillery and air attacks
carried out by the Israeli military uh
this uh will hinder the work of the
municipality already broken mechanism of
services due to the the past for the
past eight months and given the
intensity of the bombing campaign in
terms of scale and magnitude also within
the past 30 minutes we have confirmed
reports of more artillery and tank
attacks near waza this is the area to
the southern part of waza where
Palestinians displ Palestinians on daily
basis gathered there in groups either
waiting for AED trucks or trying to find
a way to get back to their homes in the
northern par in Gaza City the reports
that we received talking about at least
close to eight people were critically
injured at that particular p with
difficulty right now for the ambulance
and paramedics and civil defense group
to get to remove the injuries from the
area and from past experience they're
like
to die in these areas and be removed
within the coming days because any
ambulance any defense crew member get to
or paramedics get to that area it's more
of like a shooting range it will get
shot at right
away uh and hany of course gaza's
healthc care sector nearing very much
the edge of collapse given all of
Israel's Relentless bombardment there
well as long as this genocidal war is
Raging across the trip we'll see more
pressure put on the remaining Health
Care Facilities the example of this is
the one behind me right here we've been
doing reports for the past uh 40 days
and we've seen other Devastation and
obliteration of the entire Health Care
System inside the hospital I'm not
exaggerating to say at some point the
hospital is only a standing skeleton
there isn't any medical services
provided whatsoever the fact that
injuries comes here and scores they on
the floor of the hospital there isn't
enough medical staff there's acute
medical uh Supply shortage medical
supplies inside the hospital to the
point where doctors have to make uh
serious decision about the priorities
where to give the their attention to
those are that are considered as
hopeless cases are not getting the
attention at the need then that's
because of the influx of injuries
arriving to the hospital on a daily
basis this is a representative sample of
what happened to the Health Care System
across the G including the destruction
of a shifa hospital the instruction of
the Indonesian and Kamal adwan Hospital
in the northern part Naser Hospital in
the city of Hud is completely out of
service and right now whatever is being
done is more of a humble efforts to get
these hospitals back on track they're
not going to be fully back and providing
all services but at least they are step
by step and as a of now we can safely
say the entire Health Care system is
100% crippled across the G stre we did
manage to get a report from inside the
hospital and we got access to restricted
area like the operating rooms this is
what we found out
inside we're inside the lxa hospital at
the emergency department here uh and as
you can see it's
overcrowded uh I'm joined by Dr Bushra
man
uh inside the hospital she's from panima
medical Mission uh volunteering to help
uh people and medical staff inside the
hospital Dr ker we need to know more
about what's going on inside the
emergency department thank you Hy so um
as you can see here there's extreme
overcrowding in the emergency department
um this is actually a time when it's not
really as busy as it could get
especially when there are attacks
nearby um there's Limited resources in
the department with only a few doctors
servicing hundreds of patients family
members are everywhere there's not
enough beds for the patients you can see
them either in wheelchairs or uh on the
floor on mats surrounded by their family
members um there are only three doctors
generally in the emergency department so
these doctors are overworked and underst
staffed this is a hospital normally that
would have a couple of hundred beds and
doesn't necessarily get to treat a lot
of patients there are now up to 800
patients and thousand thousand of
displaced people living here as you can
see all around us there are patients and
their family members in the corridors in
hallways living with their blankets
family members um it makes it very
difficult to be able to move around even
to be able to actually even find your
patients but a lot of times
unfortunately because there's no
structure and there's no system you
actually don't know always where your
patients end up or where you might be
able to find them in order to provide
the treatment that they require and
we're going to take a look inside on the
limited resources that are being
provided here in the operating theaters
in all the healthare facilities inza
there are only a couple of hospitals
that are still partially functional and
this will be one of them on my left hand
side here are the recovery rooms where
patients come after they have finished
their operations um we can't necessarily
show you everything that's inside but
there's very limited resources there's
not necessarily the equipment to be able
to monitor them in terms of taking their
Vital Signs like blood pressure and
heart rate what are we seeing here what
is this case yeah so this is this is a
young kid that's obviously had severe
burns from an explosion or a blast
injury um this is a very common and
unfortunate scenario um a lot of these
kids are in severe pain because of their
wounds there isn't enough adequate
analgesia to be able to give them uh
they have to come daily down to the
operating through room to get dressing
changes because there isn't enough
adequate Supply on the wards to be able
to dress their wounds appropriately um
and they require care actually that NE
sometimes is unnecessarily not able to
be provided here at OA Hospital